=Generation to Generation=
=Episode 8=
Duan Jiuxiu, Elder Tianji
was already killed by my aunt.
Uncle Zhou,
why is he still alive?
Zhizhen,
are you all right?
(Young Zhou Zhizhen, Peiqiong Manor)
I'm fine.
Pingshu is injured.
(Young Zhou Zhiqin)
I'll escort her back.
Be careful.
Goodbye.
Look carefully.
Leave no one alive.
Yes.
I have
the Ziwei Method.
I am a member of the Six Sects.
How could I collude
with the demonic sect?
Elder Tianji has long been dead.
Zhao,
don't listen to his slander.
At a time like this,
what is there left to hide?
When you and Elder Tianji came to me,
you said that with the Ziwei Method,
we wouldn't have to be
anyone's lackey anymore
or do dirty, exhausting work.
You even said
that Zhou Zhizhen wasn't better
than you in fighting or capability,
so why couldn't you become the lord?
You said
you'd unify
the Six Sects soon.
Shut up.
Mr. Zhou,
you're so foolish.
Why would Elder Tianji pass
his martial arts to you?
If not to rope you in as an inside man
among the Six Sects,
that old jerk
would never have survived
in the Li Sect.
How could he cultivate the Ziwei Method?
Once I leave,
I will surely report to the Chief.
Cowardly scoundrel.
Sowing discord.
Master,
didn't we agree to practice in secret?
If you report to the Chief,
we won't be able to practice anymore.
Uncle Jiu knew you harbored
ulterior motives.
He had me keep an eye on you.
You really thought I fancied you
and was willing to be your deputy?
You...
Zhao,
hand over the saliva.
Our sects have been friends
for generations.
You are also about to marry Yuqi.
We will be family.
Now,
I've lost my son.
You and Yuqi are my children.
We can cultivate
the Ziwei Method together
and bring glory to our sects.
That way,
we won't have to be submissive
or be suppressed by other sects.
That's right, young lady.
I also admire Ms. Cai.
Once the Method is perfected,
we can go out to uphold justice.
That would not disgrace Ms. Cai's name.
Right?
Zhao?
That makes sense.
It's not impossible.
Here you go.
You're still alive.
Your lover is dead.
Of course, I'm still alive.
Uncle Jiu.
You're a junior.
I won't make things hard for you.
Hand over the saliva,
and you may leave.
Saliva in exchange for my life.
That's not a bad deal.
But this saliva
is only a little.
Is it enough for the three of you?
No matter which one of you I give it to,
the other two
will harbor hatred toward me
and want me dead.
Give it to me.
They won't dare act rashly.
I don't believe it.
Unless you kill them all.
No.
What if you fake your deaths
and escape?
Wouldn't I suffer a huge loss?
What do you want?
I want you to cut off
Zhou Zhiqin's head.
When his head is separated
from his body,
I will hand over the saliva.
Cai Zhao,
have you lost your mind?
If not for you letting
that damned man escape,
so many people wouldn't have died.
Go to the underworld
and atone for your sins.
Elder Duan,
don't listen to her sowing discord.
As expected
of that vile Cai Pingshu,
raising such a vicious little wretch.
Fine.
Since you say that,
let's perish together.
- Wait.
- No.
Let's talk it out.
Talk it out, huh?
Then will you speak properly?
From now on,
I don't want to hear a single word
disrespecting my aunt.
Uncle Jiu was just anxious.
He didn't mean to slight your aunt.
We won't say it anymore.
We won't.
Stop putting on airs before me.
If I'm unhappy,
I can let go of the saliva,
but you
must die.
Then die.
No, no.
Are you going to do it or not?
I'll count to three.
One.
Two.
Three!
Fine.
I agree.
Uncle Jiu.
Qinong,
I'm old.
I can't wait any longer.
Don't blame me.
Young lady,
there's no way out.
Hand over the saliva,
and I'll let you go.
Here you go.
You wretch. I'll kill you.
Why are you still here?
Jerk!
You're not dead?
You were waiting for me.
How would I dare die?
Impossible.
I saw you dragged away by the python.
That's true.
But the python hates heat.
When my mindful way circulates,
my whole body heats up.
So, the python let me go.
I was quite lucky.
I even met a friend.
Qian Xueshen?
Weren't you already...
He bribed Mr. Zhang
and swapped identities with him.
The one who died there was Mr. Zhang.
Normally, once a person dies,
the Body Shift will end.
But the corpse was destroyed at once.
So, it was flawless,
and his scheme succeeded.
You also placed the statue
of my ancestor Gu Qingkong?
It's the Jade Statue.
Were you trying
to lure us into the ice cave
to be attacked by the python?
Why did you do this?
Because this hunting lodge
is my home.
So,
you are the son of that family.
What was that hunter's surname again?
I can't quite remember.
Tao.
If I remember correctly,
that young wife was quite pretty.
That was my aunt.
She was even pregnant.
Fifteen years ago,
you should've long been buried
by the snow.
It was my father and uncle
who dug you out one by one
and brought you home to recover.
Hey, everyone.
Come and help.
- Here, Shu.
- Father.
Come on.
Some wandering martial folks
were searching for treasure,
using powder and causing an avalanche.
Luckily, we heard the noise
and dug them out.
Their lives
were barely saved.
But the first thing
you did after waking up
was to silence them.
You beasts.
I'll kill you!
My child is about to be born.
Please let me go.
In this barren, freezing land,
you're so delicate and pretty.
After all, they did save us.
Why not
let them die painlessly?
What a surprise
that you'd be so compassionate.
How pretty and delicate.
Don't worry. It won't hurt.
What a sin.
Stop pretending.
Wasn't this your suggestion?
"Though they weren't part of Jianghu,"
"they often helped travelers."
"If they said something"
"and let people know
a righteous sect member"
"like you were mingling with us,"
"Qingque Sect wouldn't spare you."
Now, you're pretending?
Who is it for?
If Nie Hengcheng were to learn
that you colluded with Elder Duan
to secretly cultivate his skill,
do you think
he would spare you?
What did you say?
Enough.
We're on the same side.
Why argue about this?
Let's hurry and find
the saliva of the Snow-Scale Beast.
Then
what about these corpses?
Burn them all.
Save them from reincarnation.
Failing to eradicate the roots
surely brings endless trouble.
Back then,
we actually missed you.
You were only 7 or 8 years.
Alone in the snowfields,
how did you survive until now?
I met my master, Master Qianmian.
He rescued me
and taught me all my skills.
After my master died,
I returned here.
Eat, Snow.
I'll go steal some cured meat tonight.
I'll come feed you again tomorrow.
Snow,
you've grown so big already.
I spread news everywhere
that the Snow-Scale Beast
had reappeared in the snow mountains,
luring the greedy ones here,
and then trapped them in the ice cave.
(Zhou Yulin, Peiqiong Manor)
You killed so many innocent people
for the saliva
and even caused the death of your son.
Even if you master
peerless martial arts,
what use is it?
I've always tried to lure you all here.
Unfortunately,
my identity was exposed midway
and I was captured by the demonic sect.
But heaven has eyes.
Miss Cai
brought me back here,
and I finally met the enemies.
I deliberately put the saliva
in your son's hands
to make you kill each other.
The saliva is yours?
That's right.
The Snow-Scale Beast did appear here.
When I was little,
my father and uncle collected
quite a bit
of the saliva that dripped
onto the ground.
Do you remember the bed you slept on?
Fifteen years ago,
the saliva of the Snow-Scale Beast
was in the ice chest under the bed.
You didn't have to wait for 15 years.
Take out the remaining slime.
The last beast is already dead.
What Miss Cai poured out just now
was indeed the last saliva in the world.
You're lying.
There must still be saliva.
Take out the remaining slime.
Don't.
My wounds haven't healed.
I can't win.
- We'll find a chance to leave.
- Take it out.
- Leave him to later.
Take it out.
What is this?
This is gland fluid I extracted
from the bodies
of a thousand female snakes.
Once male snakes smell it, they go mad.
No matter where you flee,
they will devour you
until death.
Qinong.
Come and help me.
Qian Xueshen!
I have the Ziwei Method.
Tell me.
Has Nie Zhe's Wudu Palm been perfected?
It's you.
Go, Qian Xueshen.
Why save me?
You're not a bad person.
You shouldn't die.
I'm not a bad person?
Are you blind?
I wanted to die long ago.
Qian Xueshen,
your whole family is dead except you.
When you reunite
with them in the underworld,
your parents will surely be delighted.
Mu Qingyan!
The avalanche! Run!
Zhao.
Where is this?
Where is Qian Xueshen?
Once you woke up, you asked about him.
Why don't you think
about how to repay me?
I have no money.
Just my life.
Even if you ask me
to give myself to you,
at most it's one night of passion.
I won't take responsibility afterward.
♪In days gone by♪
It's fine.
♪I first saw you in the dimness♪
♪Amid the vast crowd♪
♪A fleeting glance♪
♪And then♪
One night of passion
is better than tasting
no sweetness at all.
♪Alas, we parted♪
♪Longing for your return♪
♪Moon waxes and wanes♪
♪Letters can't convey my thoughts♪
♪Scattered petals♪
♪Cover the ground♪
♪Such should be our meeting♪
♪Golden wind brushes the jade dew♪
♪Half shy, half joyful♪
♪Wanting to leave yet lingering♪
♪Such should be our meeting♪
♪Across the Magpie Bridge♪
♪Alas, peach blossoms have fallen♪
♪Tears are like pearls♪
The tri-colored peach blossoms
of Luoying Valley.
So, this place has quite a connection
with your Luoying Valley.
You're awake.
The landlady?
It must have been you two who saved us.
You soaked in the Wanzai Hot Spring
for quite some time.
Your injuries have healed.
Only one of his poisons
remains hard to remove.
Thank you.
Sit.
Senior,
where is Qian Xueshen?
Is he all right?
He's much sturdier than you.
He woke up yesterday.
Why is that pretty boy
still alive?
This is the pattern of Luoying Valley.
Senior, are you
a descendant of my ancestor,
Ms. Gu Qingkong?
This is my master's grandmaster,
your ancestor, Gu Qingkong,
Ms. Gu.
200 years ago,
Founder Beichen summoned spirit beasts
from the immortal realm
to eradicate demons.
Later, martial practitioners discovered
that spirit beasts were helpful.
They forgot gratitude
and slaughtered them wantonly.
Ms. Gu, to protect the spirit beasts,
stood against all martial practitioners.
But no matter how gifted she was,
she could not withstand
endless human greed.
In the end,
she could only flee here
with the surviving spirit beasts
and vanish without a trace.
That's our first demoness.
Independent
and exceptional.
They say your demonesses defy the world
and are intolerable to all.
Why are you so proud about it?
They were smeared
because they were invincible.
No need to mind it.
Zhao is right.
Those people are simply shameless.
By the way, senior,
does the Snow-Scale Beast
still live today?
When your aunt came back then,
the last Snow-Scale Beast
was already at death's door.
My aunt came here?
She also came to look for the saliva.
A masked man traveled with her.
This painting was drawn by that man.
(Uncle Zhou and Master are upright.)
(They shouldn't have worn masks.)
Why did my aunt seek the saliva,
and who was that man?
Have you known Qian Xueshen
for a long time?
The Tao family often brought prey
to my master and me.
Shu and I grew up together.
The inn at the foot of the mountain
was set up to avenge the Tao family.
First, to gather information.
Second,
to stop innocent people
from dying senselessly.
Since you were so close
to the Tao family,
then
why didn't you intervene
the night they were killed?
At that time,
I was away seeking spirit medicine
for the dying Snow-Scale Beast.
I wasn't on the mountain.
The Tao family were all kind people
and saved many travelers.
Who could have expected
that this world
and the people of Jianghu
had never changed?
Where is Qian Xueshen?
Qian Xueshen.
My name is not Qian Xueshen.
My name is Tao Shu.
Miss Cai.
Mr. Mu.
Thank you for helping me avenge them.
No need to thank us.
In the end,
all sects owe you a debt.
Qian...
Shu,
is there still even a little
of the Snow-Scale Beast's saliva left?
Has the Snow-Scale Beast
left behind
anything else?
Xuegu once said
the Snow-Scale Beast
seemed to have left an egg.
A Snow-Scale Beast lays eggs?
Ancient dragons reproduce by eggs.
But this egg has been laid
for many years
and still refuses to hatch.
Didn't you raise Peng birds before?
You should know how to incubate eggs.
Call over your two Golden Pengs
to hatch it.
My Golden Pengs are male.
Both of them?
That's too cruel of you.
I...
Peng birds and dragon beasts
are natural enemies.
Dragon beasts are spiritual creatures.
If they sense danger,
they will never hatch.
Using Peng birds won't work.
My father once said
that ancient spirit beasts resonate
with their masters.
They rely on recognizing blood aura
to form a bond.
Since this Snow-Scale Beast
was saved by Luoying Valley's ancestor,
and they'd lived together for years,
it must recognize that blood aura.
Perhaps
the blood aura of Luoying Valley
can awaken it.
Did your father say
how much blood is needed
to raise a spirit beast?
I've been weak in blood aura.
I don't know if it'll work.
Look.
It didn't work.
That shouldn't be.
Again.
Mu Qingyan!
Look.
Dragon.
So good.
Spit out some saliva.
You've got nerve.
Come on.
If you don't spit out saliva,
I'll stew you into soup.
Get down here.
If you don't come down,
I'll braise you.
Don't run.
I'll chop you into mince
and make wonton.
Give me some.
Please.
Come on.
I'm telling you.
Behave,
or I'll kill you.
(Isn't this Grandfather's mechanism?)
It fell asleep.
So cute.
Once I get the saliva
and find my master,
I'll come back to keep it company.
You complain for three days
just because a wonton has no scallions.
Someone so attached to worldly pleasures
could hardly last three days
on this cold, silent snow peak.
And you want to live here long-term?
Why say it out loud?
I selfishly forced it
to hatch.
There's only one Snow-Scale Beast
in this world.
It must be very lonely.
The Snow-Scale Beast
lives a very long life.
At least 200 years.
In 200 years, the world
will change many times.
Maybe somewhere out there,
another of its kind will appear.
So,
we ordinary mortals
needn't rack our brains worrying
about this long-lived little creature.
You seem pretty concerned yourself.
How would I care
about a little spirit beast?
Really?
Hard work pays off.
We finally got it.
But can this thing
really counter the Body Shift?
Don't move.
Young Master,
forgive me.
Why turn me into a woman?
After taking the saliva,
it takes two hours to take effect.
What if I can't change back?
Rest assured.
You will.
I have something to do. I'll go first.
Anyway, the antidote takes two hours.
Since you have nothing to do,
do me a favor.
Whatever is in your mind,
it's impossible.
Mu.
I even borrowed these clothes for you.
Xuegu?
Senior,
Xuegu wants to ask you
why you hid your identity from her.
Qian Xueshen said you have no name
and belong to no sect.
Why do you know
the Ning clan's mechanisms?
Could it be...
Is your mother well?
Uncle?
My mother said
you disappeared 15 years ago.
Everyone thought you were dead.
I have been reborn.
The past
no longer counts.
Mr. Mu.
Is this the Qianmian Sect's Body Shift?
Uncle,
you even recognized him?
Xuegu and I have known each other
for over ten years.
I can tell at a glance.
Mr. Ning, sharp eyes indeed.
Uncle,
my mother and great-aunt
often think of you.
When do you plan to return?
I won't.
The world is dull.
My beloved matters more.
Xuegu is about to wake up.
I need to brew tea
and cook congee for her.
It really works.
We can go back.
We'll depart early tomorrow morning.
Uncle warned me
not to reveal the snow mountains
or his matters,
so the spirit beasts and they
can have their last pure land.
Once we part,
I don't think we'll meet again.
Zhao,
would you give up everything
for the one you love?
Of course not.
As you said,
I'm attached to the bustling world.
Besides,
I haven't become the Manager yet.
How could I give up everything
for someone?
What if it were for me?
For you?
I'd be even less willing.
Think about it.
The Lord of Qianmian Sect
made a wrong choice
and ruined the entire sect.
The past warns the future.
I wouldn't do something that foolish.
You're right.
What about you?
Would you give up everything
for someone?
I would.
I don't believe it.
There's nothing I can't give up.
As the Young Master,
you'll surely have
piles of gold and silver,
wives and concubines aplenty,
fine clothes, and rich food.
You have everything to give up,
but you just can't.
Is that how you see the life
of the Young Master?
Then what is it like?
What a lousy bird,
wanting to eat a little beast.
They're natural enemies,
locked in deadly opposition
for generations.
Just like the Li Sect
and your Six Sects.
As long as you're happy.
You really aren't coming with us?
This frozen wilderness is deserted.
My uncle stayed for Xuegu.
Why are you staying?
For it.
The Snow-Scale Beast
or the Body Shift
never should have reappeared
in this world.
I couldn't let go of this skin.
Consider me leaving an heir
for the Tao family.
This is where my family
lived for generations.
Staying here,
I feel at ease.
I'll raise the little dragon beast.
Ms. Cai.
Mr. Mu.
Meeting you both was my fortune.
All banquets must end.
Let us
part here.
Take care.
(May we never meet again.)
(Zhao,)
(thank you.)
(Thank you for believing in me)
(and not giving up on me.)
Come and help.
People
are both good and bad.
Even if you save just one good person,
it's worth it.
Do you understand?
Mother.
Father. Mother.
If I encounter travelers in need again,
I will still save them,
just like you did.
You were never wrong.
Those who do evil are.
=Generation to Generation=
♪The breeze is gentle,
and spring is fair♪
♪I roam the rivers and hills
in the martial world♪
♪With a shining cup,
I drink with delight tonight♪
♪Free to wander in the world♪
♪I drink with the breeze,
lost in my dreams♪
♪I rest beneath the stars' soft gleam♪
♪The night is calm, still as a stream♪
♪It washes away all judgment and scheme♪
♪I drink with the breeze,
lost in my dreams♪
♪I hold the bright moon
as I return home♪
♪I freely roam in the world♪
♪All I ask is that you go with me♪
♪I drink with the breeze,
lost in my dreams♪
♪I hold the bright moon
as I return home♪
♪I freely roam in the world♪
♪All I ask is that you go with me♪